Welcome to linking blend files making a proxy in this video you will learn more about linking data blocks.
Understand what is happening when you leap.
Realize that when.
Realizing of course when you need to use a proxy.
And we already got some issues at the moment that we can't move are linked objects.
Perhaps that's a clue of what's coming next.
So about making a proxy.
What is happening in the background is it creates a new object that is a parent of the linked data and
what that in turn allows us to do is transformation of an object.
It allows us to edit the parent the new object that's been created the proxy object that's been created
and that allows us to do things like scale move rotate etc. and it also allows us to change the object
properties of the parent which in turn will modify the linked data.
Otherwise it's exactly the same as the linked file.
It is identical to the source file that you brought in to Blender the object data blocks is linked to
the original and any dependent data blocks as well.
So if you've got you will probably have a mesh data in there but you might have imported lamps that
won't be there but that will have like properties.
So in a mesh data when you brought that in so you will have the object data block you'll probably have
a mesh data block along with that.
And if you've got materials applied to that those are come across and any textures as well.
So let's go experience making a proxy over in blender.
Oh okay of course we're on our way to a blender at the moment and first of all we need to make the commit
message what we're going to do in this case it's going to be the title of the video that I'm doing of.
And in your case it's going to be making my Linked objects a proxy or something along those lines or
of course if you're working on something else in between.
Remember to give it an appropriate name so you know what you've done right now that that is done.
We're ready to hop home over in a blender.
I just want to say at this point this is going to be the last time I'm actively going to be showing
you source tree working in the background.
I'll just be doing this as I progress.
Please do continue making your commits whenever you make major changes to your model because it's going
to allow you to go back if you have a problem.
We'll be visiting how to go back in a future lecture.
So don't worry about that.
That's still coming.
But otherwise you won't see much of sourced tree from now onwards right.
So now we're back over in lendu we've got a series of linked objects and we can see the outline of their
links because they have this little bits of paper on them with the arrow which means they're link to
a another blend far.
We can't see anything at the moment because we shove them all on too late too.
So let's go over to layer 2 now that's looking pretty good and we need to make these things a proxy
which will allow us to move them and therefore construct our church from these pieces.
Or your interior building if you're working on something different.
So I'm going to select that.
Now this is an object operation so we can go down to the objects menu and if we go up here we've got
make proxies about half way down the menu and you can see the shortcuts there are control Oulton.
P When we do that we get an okay message.
So we have to click again.
And now it is a proxy so we can see here that it's ever so slightly different.
It's been renamed underscore proxy.
And if we open it up it's got a little bit of a hierarchy.
We've got a linked church vault mesh down here and the linked object there as well.
So this is great.
This is showing us that it is a proxy it's renamed it for us.
And now of course what we can't do with any of the others is move it about and translate it in our world.
We can even rotate it and scale it.
Of course what we do have to be careful with is the whole scaling thing.
That's one of the reasons why I've made a series of church floors here because later on when I go to
apply a texture to those floors or walls or wherever if I decide to scale that object.
So for instance the church floor that's two by two can quite easily be scaled to fit even a two by four
or four by four.
However the textures will also stretch.
So with the church floor four by four what would have to do is remap the textures.
But if we've got the original object already mapped properly and will go into that soon then we don't
have to worry about stretching it and re rejigging all of the texture mapping to sort that out so that's
why I've got a series of objects there with the walls and everything else.
I think I'm going to be filed the settings that I've got.
I'm just going to undo the movement that I've done with this particular.
Church of here.
And of course I've got a very quick challenge for you guys.
I would like you to proxy or linked files some make the rest of your linked objects proxy's in your
scene.
Balls of video now and give that ago.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go make those other linked files proxies.
I'm going hop into a blender.
And here we go.
Now I am just going.
I've not tried this.
I'm going to try selecting all of these going to object and make proxy.
No it's only done the selected one.
I think you do control all tempy make proxy control or to make proxy select it control orders and make
proxy make sure your cursor is not over the outline.
But over the 3-d editing window itself.
Otherwise you'll shortcut key is not going to work if I trying use it whilst I'm still over the outliner.
It's not going to do anything.
So make sure you're over the 3D editor window and there we go.
All of these have been made proxy's Finally I need to make sure I've saved my blend file and then if
I hop on over into source tree I can see my uncommitted changes which will be my Gothic church blend
file which is the scene I'm creating and my read me updating what I've done.
Perfect.
So let's stage those files go to commit.
And of course the name is correct.
Their hit commit and we're sorted.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on how we're almost ready now to start constructing our church but we've got one
more thing to learn about when it comes to linking files and that so we can have some more control over
these files locally within this blend file.
But I would be discussing that in the next lecture.